doc: add sdk cheat-sheet (#4657)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/overview/cheat-sheet.md

---
title: "Cheat Sheet"
linkTitle: "Cheat Sheet"
weight: 3
description: >
    Operator-SDK Cheat Sheet commands and operations
---

Below you will find a cheat sheet with options and helpers for projects, which are built with the SDK and are respecting its proposed layout.

## Common commands and options

| Command   | Description  |
|-------|-----------|
| `operator-sdk init`          | To initialize an operator project in the current directory. |

> | `operator-sdk init --plugins=<plugin-key>`          | To initialize an operator project in the current directory using a specific plugin. You can check the available plugins you can run `oparator-sdk --help`. E.g (`operator-sdk init --plugins=helm`).|

Reviewer: Nit: 
```suggestion
| `operator-sdk init --plugins=<plugin-key>`          | To initialize an operator project in the current directory using a specific plugin. To check the available plugins you can run `oparator-sdk --help`. E.g (`operator-sdk init --plugins=helm`).|
```

| `operator-sdk create api [flags]`          | Lets you create your own APIs with its [GKV][gkvs] by [Extending the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions][extend-k8s-api], or lets you use external/core-types. Also generates their respective [controllers][controllers-k8s-doc].|

> | `operator-sdk create webhook [flags]`          | To scaffold [Webhooks][webhooks-k8s-doc] for the APIs declared on the project. Currently, only the Go-based project supports this option. |

Reviewer: Nit: 
```suggestion
| `operator-sdk create webhook [flags]`          | To scaffold [Webhooks][webhooks-k8s-doc] for the APIs declared in the project. Currently, only the Go-based project supports this option. |
```

---
title: "Cheat Sheet"
linkTitle: "Cheat Sheet"
weight: 3
description: >
    Operator-SDK Cheat Sheet commands and operations
---

> Following a cheat sheet with the options and helpers for projects which are built with SDK and are respecting its proposed layout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below you will find a cheat sheet with options and helpers for projects, which are built with the SDK and are respecting its proposed layout.
```

> ## Base commands and options 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Common commands and options 
```

| Command   | Description  |
|-------|-----------|

> | `operator-sdk init`          | To initialize a operator project in the current directory |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `operator-sdk init`          | To initialize an operator project in the current directory |
```

> | `operator-sdk init --plugins=<plugin-key>`          | To initialize a operator project in the current directory using an specific plugin. For you are able to check the available plugins you can run `oparator-sdk --help`. E.g (`operator-sdk init --plugins=helm`)|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `operator-sdk init --plugins=<plugin-key>`          | To initialize an operator project in the current directory using a specific plugin. You can check the available plugins you can run `oparator-sdk --help`. E.g (`operator-sdk init --plugins=helm`)|
```

> | `operator-sdk create api [flags]`          | Let you create your own APIs with its [GKV][gkvs] by [Extendig the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions][extend-k8s-api], or let you use external or core-types as well as generate their respective [controllers][controllers-k8s-doc]|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `operator-sdk create api [flags]`          | Lets you create your own APIs with its [GKV][gkvs] by [Extending the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions][extend-k8s-api], or lets you use external/core-types. Also generates their respective [controllers][controllers-k8s-doc]
```

Reviewer: Do you think it'll be useful to have links to the commands pointing to the explanation of the command in https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/cli/. 
For ex: 
[operator-sdk create api](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/cli/operator-sdk_create_api/) | Lets you create.....etc

Author: I think that could be nice. However, a little hard to keep maintained. However, see that at the end I added 

> **NOTE:** For further information check about the `make` options see the Makefile scaffolded in your project. Also, see the 
[CLI][cli] documentation to check all possible options.

Would that be fine?

Author: I am closing this one since the change was addressed. However, please feel free to ping me if you see that would be better we add the links for the cli commands individually.

Reviewer: No worries, this is fine..

Reviewer 3: I disagree. If the link needs updating, then so does the command here, since the link's resource maps exactly to the command names.

Reviewer 3: Once again, I really don't think command information that can be gotten from `operator-sdk --plugins=<plugin> --help` should be in the cheatsheet. Autogenerated CLI docs are already quite informative.

> | `operator-sdk create api [flags]`          | Let you create your own APIs with its [GKV][gkvs] by [Extendig the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions][extend-k8s-api], or let you use external or core-types as well as generate their respectively [controllers][controllers-k8s-doc]|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `operator-sdk create api [flags]`          | Let you create your own APIs with its [GKV][gkvs] by [Extendig the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions][extend-k8s-api], or let you use external or core-types as well as generate their respective [controllers][controllers-k8s-doc]|
```

> | `operator-sdk create webhook [flags]`          | To scaffold [Webhooks][webhooks-k8s-doc] for the APIs declared onn the project. Note that only Go-based project supports this option currently.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `operator-sdk create webhook [flags]`          | To scaffold [Webhooks][webhooks-k8s-doc] for the APIs declared on the project. Note that only the Go-based project supports this option currently.|
```

> | `operator-sdk create webhook [flags]`          | To scaffold [Webhooks][webhooks-k8s-doc] for the APIs declared on the project. Note that only the Go-based project supports this option currently.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `operator-sdk create webhook [flags]`          | To scaffold [Webhooks][webhooks-k8s-doc] for the APIs declared on the project. Currently, only the Go-based project supports this option.
```

| `make docker-build IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:<tag>`          | Build the operator image      |
| `make docker-build docker-push IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:<tag>`      | Build and push the operator image for your registry  |
| `make install`         | Install the CRDs into the cluster |
| `make uninstall`         | Uninstall the CRDs into the cluster |

> | `make run`         | Run your controller locally and outside of the cluster. Note that, this will run in the foreground, so switch to a new terminal if you want to leave it running. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `make run`         | Run your controller locally and outside of the cluster. Note that this will run in the foreground, so switch to a new terminal if you want to leave it running. |
```

| `make deploy`         | Deploy your project on the cluster |
| `make undeploy`         | Undeploy your project on the cluster |

> ## To work with bundles and help you out to integrate your project with OLM

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Create bundles, catalogs, and develop for OLM
```

| `operator-sdk run bundle <some-registry>/<project-name-bundle>:<tag>.` | To deploy your bundle operator using OLM on your cluster for development purposes |

### Updating bundle channels
 
The following examples let you update the [bundle][bundle] with data-informed. For further information also check [Upgrade your Operator][upgrade-project] and see [Channel Naming][channel-namming-doc].  
 
**NOTE:** Note that it will carry over any customizations you have made and ensure a rolling update to the next version of your Operator. 

```sh
make bundle CHANNELS=fast,preview DEFAULT_CHANNEL=stable VERSION=1.0.0 IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name-bundle>:<tag>
```

```sh
export CHANNELS=fast,preview 
export DEFAULT_CHANNEL=stable
export VERSION=1.0.0
make bundle
make bundle CHANNELS=fast,preview DEFAULT_CHANNEL=stable VERSION=1.0.0 IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name-bundle>:<tag>
```
## To test your projects

| Command   | Description  |
|-------|-----------|
| `operator-sdk scorecard ./bundle`          |  Run the [Scorecard][scorcard] tests for your bundle.  |

> | `make test`          |  Run the Go tests. It is valid only for Go-based operators.    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `make test`          |  Run Go tests. It is valid only for Go-based operators.    |
```

> | `molecule test`          |  Run the [Molecule][molecule-tests] tests.  It is valid only for Ansible-based operators. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `molecule test`          |  Run [Molecule][molecule-tests] tests.  It is valid only for Ansible-based operators. |
```

> | `helm test`          |  Run the [Helm chart tests][helm-chart-tests].  It is valid only for Helm-based operators. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `helm test`          |  Run [Helm chart tests][helm-chart-tests].  It is valid only for Helm-based operators. |
```

> **NOTE:** For further information check about the `make` options see the Makefile scaffolded in your project. Also, see the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** For further information about the `make` options refer to the Makefile scaffolded in your project. Also, see the 
```

---
title: "Cheat Sheet"
linkTitle: "Cheat Sheet"
weight: 3
description: >
    Operator-SDK Cheat Sheet commands and operations
---

Following a cheat sheet with the options and helpers for projects which are built with SDK and are respecting its proposed layout.

## Base commands and options 

> | Helper   | Description  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Command   | Description  |
```

|-------|-----------|

> | `$ operator-sdk init`          | To initialize a operator project in the current directory |

Reviewer 3: The `$` is redundant, the reader knows these are shell commands.
```suggestion
| `operator-sdk init`          | To initialize a operator project in the current directory |
```

> | `$ operator-sdk init --plugins=<plugin-key>`          | To initialize a operator project in the current directory using an specific plugin. E.g (`operator-sdk init --plugins=helm`)|

Author: Add here that we can check the available plugins with operator-sdk --help

| `$ operator-sdk create api [flags]`          | Let you create your own APIs with its [GKV][gkvs] by [Extendig the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions][extend-k8s-api], or let you use external or core-types as well as generate their respectively [controllers][controllers-k8s-doc]|
| `$ operator-sdk create webhook [flags]`          | To scaffold [Webhooks][webhooks-k8s-doc] for the APIs declared onn the project. Note that only Go-based project supports this option currently.|

> | `$ operator-sdk init --plugins=<plugin-name>`|           

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: good catcher.

| `$ make docker-build IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:<tag>`          | Build the operator image      |
| `$ make docker-build docker-push IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:<tag>`      | Build and push the operator image for your registry  |
| `$ make install`         | Install the CRDs into the cluster |
| `$ make uninstall`         | Uninstall the CRDs into the cluster |
| `$ make run`         | Run your controller locally and outside of the cluster. Note that, this will run in the foreground, so switch to a new terminal if you want to leave it running. |
| `$ make deploy`         | Deploy your project on the cluster |

> | `$ make undeploy`         | Undeploy your project on the cluster |

Reviewer 3: These are all pretty obvious by doing `make help`.

Author: Maybe. However, we would like to provide a way for people to be able to check the options before doing any scaffold. 

- I am as a user would like to have a cheat sheet doc that brings a good overview of the options provided so that I am not forced to read all docs/tutorials to get that.
- I am an operator SDK user already, however, from the oldest layout, I would like to have a cheat sheet doc that brings a good overview of the options provided so that, I can check it to have a better idea of the new options and changes made for 1.0 in order to allow me to upgrade the project.
- I am as a maintainer/consult would like to have a cheat sheet doc that brings a good overview of the options provided so that, I can easily share it for others are able to have an idea of the CLI options without the need to read all.

## To work with bundles and help you out to integrate your project with OLM

For further information check [Operator SDK Integration with Operator Lifecycle Manager][olm-integration].

| Helper   | Description  |
|-------|-----------|
| `$ make bundle`          | Create/update the [bundle][bundle] based on the project manifests in the `bundle/` directory. More info [Create a bundle][creating-a-bundle]      |
| `$ operator-sdk bundle validate ./bundle`          | To validate your [bundle][bundle] spec definition.      |
| `$ operator-sdk bundle validate ./bundle --select-optional suite=operatorframework` | Validate your bundle against [OperatorHub.io][operatorhub-io] criteria. For further information use the flag.`--help` |
| `$ operator-sdk olm install` | To install OLM on your cluster for development purposes |
| `$ operator-sdk olm uninstall` | To uninstall OLM from your cluster |

> | `$ make bundle-build IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name-bundle>:<tag>` | To build your bundle operator image |

Reviewer 3: Add commands that aren't obvious from `make help` or reading the Makefile
```suggestion
```

Author: I am not sure if is obvious for any user. We know that we can combine them. However, would any person or a new user know that as well?

> | `$ make bundle-build bundle-push IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name-bundle>:<tag>` | To build and push your bundle operator image |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `$ make bundle-build bundle-push BUNDLE_IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name-bundle>:<tag>` | To build and push your bundle operator image |
```

| `$ operator-sdk run bundle <some-registry>/<project-name-bundle>:<tag>.` | To deploy your bundle operator using OLM on your cluster for development purposes |

### Updating bundle channels
 
The following examples let you update the [bundle][bundle] with data-informed. For further information also check [Upgrade your Operator][upgrade-project] and see [Channel Naming][channel-namming-doc].  
 
**NOTE:** Note that it will carry over any customizations you have made and ensure a rolling update to the next version of your Operator. 

```sh
$ make bundle CHANNELS=fast,preview DEFAULT_CHANNEL=stable VERSION=1.0.0 IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name-bundle>:<tag>
```

> ```sh
> $ export CHANNELS=fast,preview 
> $ export DEFAULT_CHANNEL=stable
> $ export VERSION=1.0.0
> $ make bundle
> make bundle CHANNELS=fast,preview DEFAULT_CHANNEL=stable VERSION=1.0.0 IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name-bundle>:<tag>
> ```

Reviewer 3: Redundant
```suggestion
```

Author: The goal here is to show both options/examples of a need that is very common. So, because of this, I'd like to keep them.

Reviewer 3: The second example isn't really useful, it's just telling people that environment variables are consumed by make. Wouldn't it be better to have a note saying just that?

Author: Good suggestion.

## To test your projects

| Helper   | Description  |
|-------|-----------|

> | `$ operator-sdk scorecard bundle`          |  Run the [Scorecard][scorcard] tests for your bundle.  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `$ operator-sdk scorecard ./bundle`          |  Run the [Scorecard][scorcard] tests for your bundle.  |
```
